# Project: Dijkstra-optimal-mountain-route (Path Optimization)

# Description
A company called "X" wants to optimize the path of a new trail that they are planning to build in a mountainous region of the Free State. The trail is intended to be a beginner’s trail that must not require too much exertion on behalf of its participants.
We have a .csv file that describes an altitude map of the region, as well as a .csv of measurements
from a sports science lab that relates the walking gradient/slope on a treadmill with the energy expended
of multiple test subjects.

In the current configuration, the precise location of the final refuge is specified, and the code determines the most convenient path, starting from the line where Y=0.

# Comments:
It is important to mention that the search for the path with the lowest energy expenditure depends mainly on energy expenditure. However, for two people with different body masses or walking at different speeds, the total energy expenditure will be different. This is relevant for the planning of the walk according to the people involved, seeking to ensure the safety and health of all participants.

# Algorithm description:
We use Dijkstra's algorithm, which is a widely used graph search algorithm that finds the shortest path between a given starting node and all other nodes in a weighted graph. It guarantees to find the shortest paths in a graph with non-negative edge weights. In this case the weight are given by the energy cost. Therefore we can find the path which minimises the total expected exertion.

# Installation of libraries
```python
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

# Usage

Place the necessary CSV files (energy_cost.csv and altitude_map.csv) in the root directory of the project.

Run the main.py script with the desired parameters:

```python
python main.py --body_mass 75 --points_resolution 10 --walking_speed 50
```


Replace the parameter values with the desired ones. The script will calculate the shortest path and display a 3D plot with the results.

# Repository structure:
```python
|-- data/
|   |-- energy_cost.csv
|   |-- altitude_map.csv
|-- scripts/
|   |-- energy_cost_model.py
|   |-- shortest_path.py
|-- main.py
|-- requirements.txt
|-- results/
|   |-- map_beginners_trail.png
|   |-- shortest_path_coords.csv
|-- README.md
```

* data/: This folder contains the input data for the project.
    * energy_cost.csv: CSV file containing energy cost data for different altitude gradients.
    * altitude_map.csv: CSV file containing the altitude map of the hiking area.

* scripts/: This folder contains Python scripts used in the project.
    * energy_cost_model.py: Script for training the energy cost model using linear regression.
    * shortest_path.py: Script for creating a weighted graph and finding the shortest path using Dijkstra's algorithm.

* main.py: The main Python script that runs the project, calculates the optimized hiking path, and creates a 3D plot.

* requirements.txt: A file specifying the Python dependencies needed to run the project.

* results/: This folder contains the output files generated by the project.

# Author
* Name: Marcos A. Argañaraz
* email: marcos.a.arganaraz@gmail.com